Add Tutorial for LOJ-1266: Points in Rectangle (en) (#444)
lightoj-dev/problem-tutorials: 1266/en.md

# LightOj 1266 - Points in Rectangle
[Problem Statement](http://lightoj.com/volume_showproblem.php?problem=1266)  
### Summary
You will be given two type of query and the range of query is 1<=q<=3000. Two type of query is -
1. 0 x y  that means add a point in (x,y) co-ordinate if it doesn't already exist.

> 2. 1 x1 y1 x2 y2 - you have to find the number of point exist in this range where     (x1,y1) is lower left corner of rectangle and (x2,y2) is upper right corner.

Reviewer: I think we can ditch the _Problem Statement_ URL and the _Summary_ section, since the problem statement itself describes it better.

Author: thank you for your kind suggestion. i will change it as fast as possible

### Tag

> Data Structure , Binary index tree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Structure, Binary Indexed Tree
```

### Quick links for prerequisites

> Binray index tree:  

Reviewer: It's named Binary Indexed Tree. Let's use that instead of `index`.

```suggestion
Binary Indexed Tree:  
```

> https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/binary-indexed-tree-or-fenwick-tree-2
> https://cp-algorithms.com/data_structures/fenwick.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/binary-indexed-tree-or-fenwick-tree-2
- https://cp-algorithms.com/data_structures/fenwick.html
```

### Observation 

> In basic BIT (binary index tree) we deal with one dimentional array . The difference is here we have to deal with both X and Y value. so if we take two dimentional array for saving segmented sum . Here BIT[X][Y] denotes for each x index we have another array for Y value. 

Reviewer: Unnecessary implementation detail. Let's ditch this.

### Solution 
1. for first type of query we will just update the point in (x,y) index with value 1 which mainly represent number of point in that index. As it is told only one point exist in one point so value used for update always 1. But if that point is already updated then we don't have to update it.
2. The come to second type of query . Here two index is given . Now how to use our query function?? lets look at the image bellow-
![first](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52863153/227806473-b97210cb-ed3d-4978-962a-b1d02bff6eb0.png)

from above image we have to find number of point in green colored rectangle. <br>
so firstly query(x2,y2)-query(x2,y1-1) denotes the rectengle bellow with colored yellow shown bellow

![second](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52863153/227806592-5822527d-32a8-4300-ab63-989753d6a8d0.png)
but we have to avoid the left part which is marked in image bellow with colored red.
![third](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52863153/227806619-5faad985-a9d9-4aec-ba8e-7ddb624d2570.png)
so final ans <br>
=query(x2,y2)-query(x2,y1-1)-{ query(x1-1,y2)-query(x1-1,y1-1)} <br>
=query(x2,y2)-query(x2,y1-1)-query(x1-1,y2)+query(x1-1,y1-1) <br>

> then we can find easily number of point from BIT array 

Reviewer: Instead of this, you can point to [this TopCoder tutorial on 2D BIT](https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/Binary%20Indexed%20Trees#2d). And then, have your pictures and mention the equation.
Make sure to have your pictures in the same directory i.e. 1266/ and use local links to access those images in the markdown.

### Code

#### C++
```cpp
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
#define ll  long long int
const ll N=2e6+5;
const ll mod=1000000007;
ll BIT[1005][1005];

> bool vis[1005][1005];

Reviewer: Let's add some line breaks here to make it easily readable.

Lose the `ll` definitions if you can and simply use `long long` throughout your code.

void update(int x, int y , int val)
{
    while(x<=1001)
    {
        int y1=y;
        while(y1<=1001)
        {
            BIT[x][y1]+=val;
            y1+=(y1&-y1);
        }
        x+=(x&-x);
    }
}
ll query(int x, int y)
{
    ll sum=0;
    while(x>0)
    {
        int y1=y;
        while(y1>0)
        {
            sum+=BIT[x][y1];
            y1-=(y1&-y1);
        }
        x-=(x&-x);
    }
    return sum;
}
void solve()
{
   
   memset(BIT,0,sizeof(BIT)); //initialize with zero 
   memset(vis,false,sizeof(vis)); // initalize with zero
   ll q,a,b,c,d,x1,y1,x2,y2;
   cin>>q;
   while(q--)
   {
      cin>>a;
      if(a==0)
      {
         cin>>a>>b;
         a++,b++;
         if(!vis[a][b])
         {
            vis[a][b]=true; 
            update(a,b,1); //update the index 
         }
      }
      else
      {
         cin>>x1>>y1>>x2>>y2;
         x1++,x2++,y1++,y2++;

>          ll ans=query(x2,y2)-query(x2,y1-1)-query(x1-1,y2)+query(x1-1,y1-1); /* find total point inside the given rectengle */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ll ans=query(x2,y2)-query(x2,y1-1)-query(x1-1,y2)+query(x1-1,y1-1); 
         // find total point inside the given rectangle
```

         cout<<ans<<endl;
      }
   }

   return;
}
int32_t main()
{
 
 

>  

Reviewer: unnecessary empty lines.

  int tt;
  tt = 1;
  cin>>tt;
  for(int i=1;i<=tt;i++)
  {
     cout<<"Case "<<i<<":"<<endl;
     solve();
  }
  return 0;
}
```

> ##### Happy_coding (inshallah! One day you will be rewarded for your hardwork )

Reviewer: Let's lose this line as well.

# LightOj 1266 - Points in Rectangle
### Tag
Data Structure, Binary Indexed Tree
### Quick links for prerequisites
Binary Indexed Tree:  
- https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/binary-indexed-tree-or-fenwick-tree-2
- https://cp-algorithms.com/data_structures/fenwick.html

 
### Solution 

> - We will maintain a 2-D BIT to solve this problem. For query 0 x y, we will call update function each time we got a new point (x,y). For the second query, we will call query function with parameter (x,y). It will return  the sum of the rectangle that's lower left co-ordinate is (1,1) and upper right co-ordinate is (x,y). Let's take a look first testcase: <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will maintain a 2-D BIT to solve this problem. For query 0 x y, we will insert a new point (x,y). For the second type of query, we can utilize the 2-D BIT to know how many points there are in the rectangle (1,1) to (x,y). 

Let's take a look first testcase:
```

> 1   <br>
> 4   <br> 
> 0 1 1   <br>
> 0 2 6   <br>
> 1 1 1 6 6   <br>
> 1 2 2 5 5   <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<add three back-ticks here for code-block>
1
4
0 1 1
0 2 6
1 1 1 6 6
1 2 2 5 5
<add three back-ticks here for code-block>
```

> -  We got two points (1,1) and (2,6), let's plot these points <br>

Reviewer: Let's not use `<br>` unless we must, anywhere in this markdown file.

![first](./first.PNG)

> - In the first query , we have to find how many point are inside (1,1) and (6,6) . We will call query funtion with parameter (6,6) , it will return the number of point. So the ans is 2. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the first query, we have to find how many point are inside (1,1) and (6,6). We can easily do that by querying the BIT, the ans is 2.
```

- Let's come to the second query. Here we have to find the number of point inside (2,2) and (5,5). We will call query function with parameter (5,5). But it will return the number of point inside (1,1) and (5,5). The area is ploted bellow in red-  
  ![second](./second.PNG)
- We took some extra area. Because we have to find from (2,2) to (5,5) not (1,1) to (5,5). However, the final equation of ans is - <br>

> Ans=**A-B-C+D** Where <br>  A=query(x2,y2) <br> B=query(x1-1,y2-1) <br> C=query(x2-1,y1-1) <br> D=query(x1-1,y1-1) <br>

Reviewer: Please no `<br>`.
```suggestion
`Ans=A-B-C+D` where
  * A = Number of points in rectangle (1, 1) to (x2,y2)
  * B = Number of points in rectangle (1, 1) to (x1-1,y2-1)
  * C = Number of points in rectangle (1, 1) to (x2-1,y1-1)
  * D = Number of points in rectangle (1, 1) to (x1-1,y1-1)
```
```

let's clarify this equation. First look at the area ploted bellow of **A,B,C,D**. 

>  ![second](./third.PNG)
>  ![second](./fourth.PNG)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ![third](./third.PNG)
 ![fourth](./fourth.PNG)
```

      {
         cin>>x1>>y1>>x2>>y2;
         x1++,x2++,y1++,y2++;

>          long long int ans=query(x2,y2)-query(x2,y1-1)-query(x1-1,y2)+query(x1-1,y1-1); /* find total point inside the given rectangle */

Reviewer: Let's add the comment on the line above.
```suggestion
         // find total point inside the given rectangle
         long long int ans=query(x2,y2)-query(x2,y1-1)-query(x1-1,y2)+query(x1-1,y1-1);
```
